>> Brian Holt: So this is kind
of our layout for the whole day.
Sections 3 through 7 are really
tightly tied together.
So we'll kinda be going through
those as kinda one unit.
But I wanted to start off on something
that to me, is an impressive use of a data
structure that is not, perhaps it's
complicated as the rest of these.
Then we'll do some searching in an array
which is something that was kind of
an omission from the last one,
so it's kind of me just
saying I want to cover that.
And the last two are two new sorts
because I really like sorting algorithms,
I like taking things and
putting them in order.
Maybe that's OCD or something,
I don't know, but it's fun.
So we're gonna do those last
two before the end of the day.
Cool, so let's talk about BFilters.
Bloom Filters are a data structure and
they are peculiar.
>> Brian Holt: The peculiar in
the sense that they have two answers.
The answers they give are no and maybe.
[LAUGH] So, what's really cool
about this is they are a set or
a collection, or they at least act
similar to a set or collection.
And if you remember from the previous
course I said a collection is basically
this amorphous cloud of data, right?
So I put things into it and
then later I asked the set,
do you have this in the set?
And it's gonna say yes or no, right?
Bloom filters kind of seek to
fulfill that same space but
they do it in slightly different way.
They do this by-
>> Brian Holt: Making it very compact in
memory, and very fast to look up, but
at the cost of not being able to say
definitely something is in the set,
or not.
The only thing that a Bloom filter
can tell you is that something, so
the only thing it can tell you is
it's definitely not in the set,
which I think is what I said.
So they do this at the trade off, or
what you're gaining by losing
the certainty is that something is, or
the Bloom filter is very compact in memory
and it's very, very fast to look up.
So let's talk about where
this would be useful.
There's a great medium
article that I linked.
It's quite long for reasons unknown to me.
But the general premise behind it
is quite fascinating of how medium,
which is a online blogging platform,
right?
Does recommendations.
When you're going and you read an article
and you see the recommendation at
the bottom, you don't wanna see things
that you've already seen before, right?
If I've already read this article I
don't want it to keep showing up on my
recommendations.
And furthermore, if I go to like five or
six different articles and
it keeps recommending the same thing.
Eventually, I'm not gonna
read that article so
stop recommending it to me, right?
So medium uses Bloom filters in this
capacity and it basically says has
this person seen this particular article
too much or how they read it before.
And then they'll add it to the Bloom
filter once you've read it or
once you've seen it too many times.
And then later, they'll go back and
ask the Bloom filter hey,
has this person read this article?
And it's gonna say, no, this person
definitely has not read this article,
therefore you can show it,
or it says maybe.
They might have read it before,
and therefore they won't show it.
Now, the reason why it's a false positive.
Sorry, rather the false
negative is acceptable,
is that it might ask, sometimes,
have you read this article?
And it's gonna say,
this person might have read this article.
It's like, okay, well,
show them a different article, right?
The fact that you're not
showing them the article,
despite the fact that they actually
haven't read it is fine, right?
You're just filling it with
more different articles.
So that's kind of the point of
these Bloom filters is when you
have some sort of tolerance for
false negatives, but
you have no tolerance for
false positives, right?
We follow up more or
less kind of the premise here?
Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So
I linked some Wikipedia articles here,
if you wanna go check out some more
real use cases of Bloom filters.
The other thing people wondering
if Bloom is descriptive,
why is it called a Bloom filter, the guy
that invented it his last name is Bloom.
So that's just good to keep in mind.
I was trying to picture flowers, and
I don't know, it went to a weird place.
So picture for a second you have,
well, let's just diagram
this out actually.